ng:
The prefix ng stands for "Angular;" all of the built-in directives that ship with Angular use that prefix.
Similarly, it is recommended that you do not use the ng prefix on your own directives in order to avoid
possible name collisions in future versions of Angular

Available Commands:
  add Adds support for an external library to your project.
  build (b) Compiles an Angular app into an output directory named dist/ at the given output path. Must be executed from within a workspace directory.
  config Retrieves or sets Angular configuration values in the angular.json file for the workspace.
  doc (d) Opens the official Angular documentation (angular.io) in a browser, and searches for a given keyword.
  e2e (e) Builds and serves an Angular app, then runs end-to-end tests using Protractor.
  generate (g) Generates and/or modifies files based on a schematic.
  help Lists available commands and their short descriptions.
  lint (l) Runs linting tools on Angular app code in a given project folder.
  new (n) Creates a new workspace and an initial Angular app.
  run Runs an Architect target with an optional custom builder configuration defined in your project.
  serve (s) Builds and serves your app, rebuilding on file changes.
  test (t) Runs unit tests in a project.
  update Updates your application and its dependencies. See https://update.angular.io/
  version (v) Outputs Angular CLI version.
  xi18n Extracts i18n messages from source code.

For more detailed help run "ng [command name] --help"


Getting Started:
To install the Angular CLI:

npm install -g @angular/cli

Generating and serving an Angular project via a development server Create and run a new project:

ng new my-project
cd my-project
ng serve

Navigate to http://localhost:4200/. The app will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

Bundling:
All builds make use of bundling, and using the --prod flag in ng build --prod or 
ng serve --prod will also make use of uglifying and tree-shaking functionality.

Running unit tests
ng test
Tests will execute after a build is executed via Karma, 
and it will automatically watch your files for changes. You can run tests a single time via --watch=false or --single-run.

Running end-to-end tests:
ng e2e
Before running the tests make sure you are serving the app via ng serve. End-to-end tests are run via Protractor.


Additional Commands
ng new
ng serve
ng generate
ng lint
ng test
ng e2e
ng build
ng get/ng set
ng doc
ng xi18n
ng update

Angular CLI Workspace Schema
Angular CLI workspace file (angular.json) schema

Properties:


version (integer): File format version. This is currently "1".

newProjectRoot (string): Path where new projects will be created.

defaultProject (string): Default project name used in commands.

cli: Workspace configuration options for Angular CLI.

defaultCollection (string): The default schematics collection to use.
packageManager (string): Specify which package manager tool to use.
warnings (object): Warning configuration.
versionMismatch (boolean): Show a warning when the global version is newer than the local one.
typescriptMismatch (boolean): The name of the project.
schematics (object): Workspace configuration options for Schematics.

schematic-package:schematic-name (object): Object containing options for this schematic. JSON Schema for default schematics:
@schematics/angular:component
@schematics/angular:directive
@schematics/angular:module
@schematics/angular:service
@schematics/angular:pipe
@schematics/angular:class
projects: Configuration options for each project in the workspace.

root (string): Root of the project files.
sourceRoot (string): The root of the source files, assets and index.html file structure..
projectType (string): the type of this project, application or library.
prefix (string): The prefix to apply to generated selectors.
schematics (object): Project configuration options for Schematics. Has the same format as top level Schematics configuration).
architect (string): Project configuration for Architect targets.
targetName (string): Name of this target.
builder (string): Builder for this target, in the format package-name:builder-name.
options (string): Options for this builder. JSON Schema for default schematics:
@angular-devkit/build-angular:app-shell
@angular-devkit/build-angular:browser
@angular-devkit/build-angular:dev-server
@angular-devkit/build-angular:extract-i18n
@angular-devkit/build-angular:karma
@angular-devkit/build-angular:protractor
@angular-devkit/build-angular:server
@angular-devkit/build-angular:tslint
configurations (object): A map of alternative target options.
configurationName (object): Partial options override for this builder.



-- reference link 
https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/wiki
